Ban Van Vy, 29, visited his wife who had delivered twins and was at the neonatal department on the seventh floor of the hospital in Nghe An Province on Thursday morning. The visit went calmly enough, the hospital said in a statement.

One of the twins had signs of infection, and was transferred to the intensive care unit.

But at around 10:00 a.m. Vy returned, entered his wife's room and suddenly attacked another patient's relative and a staff member named Nhung with the knife.

Phan Thi Tu, 63, who was caring for two premature grandchildren in the room, said after attacking the two people Vy grabbed an infant who was sharing a bed with one of his own twins and tried to throw it out of the window.

"I was terrified, pleaded with him not to throw the baby and snatched it from his hands."

Vy tried to strangle her, but she struggled free, holding the baby, and ran around the large room, darting from bed to bed to escape the clutches of the crazed man.

After a minute or so she grabbed a hard object and struck him with it before fleeing outside. A staff member took the baby from her hands and they ran into another room to hide.

Tu was overwhelmed by then and collapsed, and sought medical attention.

An injured victim is taken to Nghe An Friendship General Hospital for emergency treatment. Photo by VnExpress/Hung Le

Ngo Thi Thu Thuy, another grandmother, said Vy then rushed toward her, snatched her infant grandson from her arms and headed for a restroom, intending to throw the child out of the window.

She ran after him and struggled with him in a bid to get the infant back but in the process was stabbed several times.

"At that moment I was only focused on protecting my grandchild, and not thinking about the injuries," she said.

Vy then turned to attack his wife, who was lying in bed.

Nurse Tran Thi Hong, who was working in another room, heard her screams and rushed over. Seeing Vy holding a baby and chasing after his wife, she ran to snatch the child from his hands.

"He was holding a fruit knife and looked very aggressive," she said.

After managing to get the child from his clutches, she ran through the third floor with Vy in pursuit.

But she tripped and fell, and her colleague Nguyen Thi Thuy Trang rushed to her, grabbed the baby and took it into a nearby nursing room to hide but she too tripped and fell.

A third nurse, Nguyen Thi Hong, rushed to assist her.

Hong and Trang then ran into the nursing room, huddled in a corner and covered themselves with a blanket, but, despite their pleas, Vy stabbed them multiple times, causing severe injuries.

A hospital security guard said at first he heard cries of what sounded like "fire on the third floor" and rushed upstairs.

But when he arrived, he heard shouts of "someone is stabbing people," he said.

At 10:05 a.m., when he entered the nursing station, he saw Vy stabbing Trang. He advised him to calm down and tried to negotiate with him.

"When he heard me, Vy stopped. My goal was to buy time to help the two nurses escape with the baby through the back door."

After the nurses managed to escape, he locked the nursing station door and waited for the police to arrive and arrest Vy.

The entire gruesome incident lasted just around five minutes.

Many doctors, patients and their families gather in the lobby of Nghe An Maternity and Pediatrics Hospital where a man was arrested by police after attacking nurses and patients. Photo by VnExpress/Hung Le

Tang Xuan Hai, director of hospital, said two nurses, a medical intern, two relatives of patients, and two newborns are injured.

Trang, one of the two nurses, has four stab wounds and is severely injured, he added.

The hospital provided first aid and transferred the victims to Nghe An Friendship General Hospital for emergency treatment.

Trang has since been pronounced out of danger.

One infant suffered minor head injuries and received prompt treatment.

Vy is being questioned and faces charges of "intentional infliction of injury" and "attempted murder."

The police have not yet said anything about what sparked the attack and it is not clear if Vy was under the influence of drugs.

Nghe An Maternity and Pediatrics Hospital on Ton That Tung Street, Truong Vinh Ward, is the north-central province's leading obstetrics, gynecology and pediatrics facility and the final referral hospital for the region. It has over 1,300 medical staff, including many highly trained doctors.

There have been repeated acts of violence against healthcare workers, especially in provincial and district hospitals.

In May this year the Ministry of Health instructed all hospitals to take security measures and adopt strategies to prevent and respond to assaults on healthcare staff and other disruptive behavior.

According to the World Health Organization, violence against doctors and healthcare workers is mainly caused by patients and their families, and 8-38% of healthcare workers are physically assaulted at least once in their careers.