Starting in January 2027, international students in the U.K. will be allowed to stay for only 18 months after graduation, down from the current two years.

The change, announced by the U.K. Home Office on Oct. 15, will apply to bachelor's and master's degree holders. PhD students will still be allowed to remain for up to three years, as is the current policy.

The U.K. government initially unveiled this plan to reduce the Graduate Route visa duration in May, as part of its immigration white paper. The change has now been formalized into legislation, with new laws presented to parliament Oct. 14, according to The PIE News .

An impact assessment released alongside the new legislation indicates that the visa change is expected to have a "modest impact" on demand, predicting a reduction of 12,000 applications annually. The assessment also highlights potential short-term effects following the announcement.

Financially, the change is expected to result in a loss of around £23 million (US$30.9 million) in visa fees and immigration surcharge revenue from the graduate route, and £27 million from the student route.

David Hanson, Minister of State for the Home Office, explained that the change is based on data showing that too many graduates are not progressing into graduate-level employment, which the Graduate Route was designed to support.

"It is intended to ensure that those who remain in the U.K. transition into graduate-level jobs and properly contribute to the U.K. economy," Hanson stated, as cited by The PIE News .

Alongside the reduced stay period, the U.K. government has increased the financial proof requirement for student visa applications. Depending on the location, international students must demonstrate between £1,171 and £1,529 financial support per month during their studies, with the highest amount applying to students in London.

In the past academic year, the U.K. hosted 732,285 international students, a 4% decrease from the record high in 2022/23, according to official government data.

U.K. universities are known for their shorter degree durations, with undergraduate programs typically lasting three years and master's degrees one year, making them shorter than in many other countries. Business and Management programs remain the most popular, attracting over a third of all international students.

Currently, tuition fees for international students from outside the EU range from £20,000 to £41,000 per year, with medical degrees costing up to nearly £68,000.