Vietnamese universities are still far from reaching world top 100 levels, and this will require policy support and reforms to boost research and internationalization and improve teaching quality.

Resolution 71 passed by the Politburo to achieve breakthroughs in education and training sets the goal of having at least eight higher education institutions in Vietnam ranking among Asia's top 200.

There are five now, according to the two most prestigious rankings—QS World University Rankings compiled by Quacquarelli Symonds, a higher education analytics firm, and Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings by the THE.

They include Duy Tan University (127th), Vietnam National University Hanoi (161st) and Ho Chi Minh City (184th) and Ton Duc Thang University (199th) in the QS ranking and the University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City (136th) on THE.

In subject-specific rankings, Vietnamese universities are only in the 301–400 band on THE and rank 363 at best on QS.

Some niche fields like Performing Arts and Petroleum Engineering have institutions ranked in the 51–100 band, but these are not counted as broad academic disciplines.

The Politburo resolution targets having by 2030 at least one Vietnamese university in the world's top 100 in select areas, and five by 2045.

Nguyen Vinh San, a representative of the Vietnam University Ranking research group, said the resolution also calls for modernizing and elevating higher education, achieving breakthroughs in developing high-quality human resources and talents, leading in research and innovation, and promoting international cooperation.

But he emphasized the need for specific policies to implement these strategies.

"The most important thing is to concentrate resources and strategically invest in strong universities with high potential and strong commitment."

He suggested launching a program like "10 Elite Vietnamese Universities," selecting a group of schools for targeted investment with output-based accountability.

Students from the University of Science, Vietnam National University, Hanoi in a clean room where semiconductor chips are produced. Photo by VnExpress/Giang Huy

Professor Nguyen Loc, a higher education expert, agreed on the need for a dedicated national university ranking program, complete with KPIs and funding categories, similar to the approaches taken by South Korea and China.

Unlike current practices that favor a few advantaged universities, such a program should be open to all institutions, public or private, that wish to participate.

Meanwhile, the government needs to increase spending on higher education from the current 0.2–0.3% of GDP, which is far below the 1%+ recommended by the World Bank, he said.

Greater autonomy is essential

Loc, San and Prof. Nguyen Dinh Duc, former chair of the University Council at VNU Hanoi University of Engineering and Technology, emphasized that granting universities stronger and more comprehensive autonomy is another key requirement.

This includes allowing institutions to make their own decisions on academic matters, organizational structures, personnel, and finances, they said.

Duc said: "Japan’s experience with university autonomy starting in 2004 is a valuable lesson. Before [that] Japan had only two universities in the world’s top 100. Shortly afterward the number rose to five."

Closing the performance gap

At the university level, Loc stressed the importance of improving three key indicators used by major ranking organizations, which are international publications and related metrics (with academic integrity), student-to-faculty ratio and internationalization (percentage of international students and faculty).

The gap between Vietnamese universities and the world’s top 100 remains significant. For example, the University of Copenhagen (Denmark), ranked around 100 in both QS and THE 2025, produced around 50,000 international publications over the past five years. In contrast, top Vietnamese universities only produced about 10,000.

Copenhagen also has a student-to-faculty ratio of 5:1, and some 10% of its students and 30% of its faculty are international, all 8–10 times higher than at most good Vietnamese universities.

Loc said universities must recognize that participating in rankings requires a major investment of all kinds of resources.

For instance, a dedicated department is needed to coordinate data collection and prepare submissions professionally, but many Vietnamese universities have just one or two individuals for this task, he said.

To increase international publications, Prof. Le Bao Long, a full professor at the National Institute of Scientific Research, University of Quebec, Canada, emphasized the need to invest in facilities, particularly laboratories and research institutes.

He also highlighted the importance of training talented students and graduate researchers, who are often the primary contributors to research output.

Universities must ramp up internationalization and partnerships with both global institutions and the private sector, he said.

These indicators encourage universities to recruit professors from various countries, attract international students, engage in collaborative research, and implement student exchange programs, he said.

"This way, universities become more recognizable and build international reputations, the key to scoring well in global ranking surveys."

But he acknowledged that Vietnamese universities face major financial constraints.

Graduate training and research funding at top international universities can run into hundreds of millions of dollars annually, he noted.

A lack of financial investments also hampers the recruitment of world-class faculty, he said, pointing out that leading universities in Singapore, China and South Korea offer highly competitive packages to attract global talent.