Financial considerations are the dominant influence on international students' study destination choices for fall 2025, with four of the top five factors being finance-related, according to ApplyBoard.

In Aug–Sep 2025, the Canadian educational technology company surveyed nearly 400 recruitment partners to assess how destination-country policy changes were shaping student interest, volumes, motivations, and preferred countries. It found that in the third quarter, four of the top five drivers were related to finances.

The cost of studying is the most common factor among students considering international study, and "more survey respondents cited this factor as a key driver than at any point since this question was added to the survey," according to ApplyBoard.

As the cost of living in many destinations continues to rise, budget-conscious students may look to less expensive communities within popular countries or opt for shorter programs such as accelerated degrees, graduate diplomas, or certificates. Institutions that promote these options effectively, while clearly outlining which post-study opportunities students in shorter programs are eligible for, can attract future leaders to their campuses, it said.

The top driver is followed by "post-study work opportunities," "cost of living," "opportunities to work while studying," and "destination that is welcoming to international students."

The number of students pursuing higher education abroad has more than tripled over the past two decades, rising from 2.1 million in 2000 to nearly 6.9 million in 2022, according to the UNESCO Institute for Statistics. International students accounted for 2.1% of global higher education enrollments in 2000, increasing to 2.7% by 2022.

Europe and North America remain the leading destinations for internationally mobile students, hosting more than half of the global total, approximately 4 million students. Global higher education enrollment has also surged, growing 2.5 times since 2000 to reach 264 million students by 2023.