Floodwaters surrounded a corner of Hue's Imperial City on Tuesday morning, as water levels in the Huong and Bo rivers, which flow through Hue, remained above the third warning level, the highest alarm level, though they were slowly receding.

The water level of the Bo River at the Phu Oc Station reached 5.25 meters on Monday afternoon, surpassing the previous historical high recorded in 2020. The Huong River peaked at 5.05 meters on Monday night and dropped to 4.76 meters by early Tuesday morning. However, it remained 1.24 meters above the third warning level.

The Huong River flood has receded gradually, but the Imperial City area remains submerged by more than one meter of water.
Le Duan Street, in front of the Imperial Citadel, was submerged by one meter of water, prompting authorities to close all traffic. It is one of the busiest streets in Hue.

Rainfall in the central city of Hue reached 1,085.8 mm in 24 hours until 11 p.m. Monday, marking the highest volume of rainfall ever recorded in Vietnam, according to the National Center for Hydro-Meteorological Forecasting.
People have moved their cars to the highest point in Hue to protect them from waters.

The area is an observatory constructed during the reign of King Minh Mang (1820-1841).
The muddy, reddish-brown Huong River nearly reached the Da Vien road and railway bridges. Both sides of the bridges have now turned into parking areas, where residents are sheltering their cars from the floodwaters.
Floodwaters rose by about one meter inside the courtyard of the Huong River Theater. The project, which began in 2017 with a total investment of VND178 billion (US$6.76 million) and was completed in March 2020, is a major venue for cultural and artistic events in Hue.
Da Vien Islet, located in the middle of the Huong River, was completely submerged. The normally emerald-green water had turned murky brown.
Covering about 10.5 hectares, the islet was once an alluvial land where the Nguyen Dynasty (1802–1945), the last Vietnamese dynasty, hosted elephant and tiger fights.
At the intersection of Dien Bien Phu and Nguyen Hue streets, floodwaters spread extensively. As a result, all students in the city were given the day off on Tuesday, and many offices allowed employees to work remotely or take leave due to the flooding.
Next to the Hue City People’s Committee office, both the Hue High School for the Gifted and the War Memorial were inundated.
Tourists wade along Le Loi Street to reach Hue Railway Station, as train services were disrupted due to the tracks being submerged under 15–20 cm of water.

Hue drowns in historic deluge
Water from the Huong River flowed into the Hue City People’s Committee building on Le Loi Street, causing flooding of up to 0.5 meters on Tuesday morning.

A total of 32 out of 40 communes and wards in Hue are now flooded, as the city has become the epicenter of the flood crisis in the central region.

Since Oct. 23, heavy rain has affected provinces from Quang Tri to Quang Ngai, which border Hue to the north and south, driven by cold air, the intertropical convergence zone, and easterly winds. Rainfall has been especially intense since Oct. 25, with totals from the evening of Oct. 24 to Oct. 28 ranging from 500–700 mm in Hue. In some areas, it has exceeded 1,000 mm, including 2,785 mm at Bach Ma peak, 1,484 mm at Khe Tre, and 1,270 mm at Huong Son.