Party General Secretary To Lam and the high-ranking Vietnamese delegation witnessed the signing of several cooperation documents between Vietnam and North Korea in Pyongyang on Oct. 10.

This formed part of the General Secretary's state visit to North Korea and attendance at the ceremony marking the 80th founding anniversary of the Workers’ Party of Korea (Oct. 10, 1945–2025).

The signed documents include a cooperation agreement between the two countries’ Ministries of Foreign Affairs, a letter of intent on defense cooperation between the two Ministries of National Defense, and a cooperation agreement between the Vietnam News Agency (VNA) and the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA). The Ministry of Health of Vietnam and the Ministry of Public Health of North Korea inked a memorandum of understanding on health and medical science cooperation.

A memorandum of understanding was also signed between the Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce of the North Korea. Built on the long-standing friendship and consistent desire for cooperation, the relationship between Vietnam and the DPRK has maintained stable and solid development in recent years, achieving encouraging and notable outcomes. The two sides have signed a number of bilateral cooperation agreements in various fields such as culture, health, civil aviation, judicial assistance, investment promotion and protection, and double taxation avoidance. They have also maintained several dialogue and cooperation mechanisms, including the political consultation at the deputy foreign minister level and the Intergovernmental Committee on Economic – Trade and Scientific – Technical Cooperation, in line with each country’s needs and international regulations. Exchanges between mass organizations have been upheld and expanded, helping citizens of both countries, especially younger generations, gain a deeper understanding of the traditional friendship and sound relations between the two Parties, States, and peoples.