Vietnam's Party General Secretary To Lam and U.K. Prime Minister Keir Starmer shake hands during their talks in London, October 2025. Photo by VNA

The partnership aims to strengthen six key pillars of cooperation, which are politics, diplomacy, defense and security; economic, trade, investment and finance; science, technology, innovation, digital transformation and health; environment, energy and green transition; education, culture, sports, tourism, people-to-people exchanges, equal rights and other fields; coordination on regional and international issues.

Over more than five decades since the establishment of diplomatic relations in 1973 and 15 years since the adoption of the Strategic Partnership framework in 2010, Vietnam and the U.K. have built a strong and enduring partnership, underpinned by mutual respect and a shared vision of a safe, prosperous and sustainable future.

The two leaders commended the progress of bilateral relations, expressing delight that Vietnam and the U.K. share many common views on international and regional issues of mutual concern, and that both sides have maintained close coordination and mutual support at international and regional forums.

The Vietnamese Party chief emphasized that Vietnam always attaches great importance to its traditional friendship with the U.K., based on mutual respect, mutual benefit, and a forward-looking spirit. He affirmed that, as a member of ASEAN, Vietnam stands ready to serve as a bridge and promote cooperation between the U.K. and ASEAN, and act as a gateway for the U.K. to access the Southeast Asian market. PM Starmer expressed his desire to work with Vietnam to advance the comprehensive development of bilateral relations, especially within the frameworks of the U.K.–Vietnam Free Trade Agreement (UKVFTA) and the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). He stressed that the U.K. Government stands ready to support Vietnam in achieving its commitment to net-zero emissions by 2050, while encouraging British enterprises to enhance investment and cooperation in Vietnam. He affirmed the U.K.’s commitment to assisting Vietnam in implementing the Just Energy Transition Partnership (JETP). The two leaders agreed to double two-way trade in the coming time. The British PM expressed his hope that Vietnam will continue supporting cooperation in e-commerce and financial services within the CPTPP framework. Regarding security and defense cooperation, both sides agreed on the need to diversify collaboration, jointly address illegal migration, and enhance defense collaboration in peacekeeping and training. The two sides also exchanged views on regional and international issues of shared concern, emphasizing the importance of maintaining peace and stability in the region; ensuring security, safety, and freedom of navigation and overflight; and resolving disputes in the Asia–Pacific region, including the East Sea, through peaceful means in line with international law, including the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS 1982).