The Football Association of Indonesia (PSSI) is struggling to find a new head coach after sacking Patrick Kluivert because of the extreme football fanbase in the country.

Coach Patrick Kluivert during a match of Indonesia at the 2026 World Cup qualifiers. Photo by AP

PSSI president Erick Thohir, who is also the Minister of Youth and Sports, cited the online discrimination and threats, which targeted players, coaches and referees during the 2026 World Cup qualifiers, as challenges in finding a new coach for the national team.

"It won't be easy, and we can't rush to appoint a new coach in this situation. I have to explain to the international football community what happened and try to win back their trust," Erick told reporters at Gelora Bung Karno Stadium on Oct. 25, as quoted by The Star .

Thohir hopes that all Indonesian fans will unite and maintain support for the national team. PSSI welcomes criticism and suggestions, but they must not turn into "cyberbullying".

Kluivert was sacked on Oct. 16 after Indonesia's 0-1 loss against Iraq in the fourth round of the 2026 World Cup qualifiers, ending their campaign. He left after just nine months in charge.

After the defeat, fans also criticized Thohir and called for his dismissal, blaming him for replacing coach Shin Tae-yong with Kluivert, who lacked substance as a coach.

Thohir admitted that finding candidates is difficult in the current situation and denied media speculations about the next head coach, including Dutch figures like Louis van Gaal, Frank de Boer, Philipp Cocu and Erik ten Hag.

"This is a lesson for all of us. International trust must be earned and rebuilt gradually," he said.

PSSI is reviewing performances under Shin Tae-yong and Kluivert to find a successor capable of achieving both immediate and future goals. Despite being eliminated from the 2026 World Cup qualifiers, Indonesia have won a spot at the 2027 Asian Cup and are looking forward to the 2026 ASEAN Cup, with multiple friendlies ahead to prepare for the tournament.

Expert Bung Harpa stressed that winning the ASEAN Cup is vital for PSSI to restore fan trust following the previous campaign.

"Choosing the right head coach is also important to maximize efforts and improve performance at the Asian Cup," Harpa told Bola . "The 2026 ASEAN Cup is a very important event to regain the trust of fans."