Football critic Zulakbal Abdul Karim believes that the seven players who have been deemed naturalized illegally to play for Malaysia should be given a chance to save their careers.

Striker Joao Figueireido (R) celebrates during the 4-0 win of Malaysia over Vietnam in the 2027 Asian Cup qualifiers, at Bukit Jalil Stadium, Malaysia on June 10, 2025. Photo by Malaysia NT

Gabriel Palmero, Facundo Garces, Rodrigo Holgado, Imanol Machuca, Joao Figueireido, Jon Irazabal and Hector Hevel are being banned from football activities for one year by FIFA following sanctions issued on Sept. 26. These seven foreign-born players were found to have used falsified documents to play for Malaysia in the 2027 Asian Cup qualifiers.

In a press conference on Oct. 25, Johor Regent and national team advisor Tunku Ismail Idris said that it would be difficult for Malaysia to appeal against the penalty, but FIFA could reduce the duration of suspension for these players.

Karim said a reduction would allow the players to regain their form and integrate back into football sooner.

"In football, reversibility refers to the loss of conditioning when training stops. The longer the ban, the greater the decline," Karim told New Straits Times . "If a player stops training for two to three weeks, there will already be a loss in fitness. A year-long ban from all football activity would definitely affect their condition."

Karim, who holds an Asian Football Confederation Professional Coaching Diploma, believes that if the suspension is reduced to six months, it will not affect the player's performance.

However, rebuilding reputation and career will take more time. Holgado confirmed that he is on unpaid leave while Garces, a center-back who was a regular for La Liga club Deportivo Alaves, faces an uncertain future, with his transfer value plummeting.

The Football Association of Malaysia (FAM) filed an appeal to the FIFA Appeal Committee (FAC) on Oct. 14, and the results are expected to be announced on Thursday. FAM must prove that it only made administrative errors and did not falsify documents, including the birth certificates of the players' grandparents. Only then will FAC have a reason to reduce the penalty and continue to let the players represent Malaysia after the suspension.

If the appeal fails, Malaysia face 0-3 forfeits in the two matches against Nepal and Vietnam in the 2027 Asian Cup qualifiers for using illegally naturalized players.

In addition to appealing to FIFA, FAM also set up a special committee to investigate the errors. The Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) is also involved in the investigation.

The MACC has contacted the Ministry of Home Affairs and the National Registration Department (NRD). They were provided with documents related to the registration process and the application for naturalization of the players. To date, MACC has not detected any violations.