Barcelona young star Lamine Yamal is close to purchasing the luxury villa where former football star Gerard Pique and Colombian pop star Shakira once resided together before their breakup, for a whopping US$16.3 million.

Lamine Yamal celebrates a goal during Barcelona's 5-2 win over Real Madrid in the Spanish Super Cup final at King Abdullah Stadium in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia on Jan. 12, 2025. Photo by AP

The villa consists of three homes on a 3,800 sq.m plot in the high-end urban area of Ciutat Diagonal, Esplugues de Llobregat, has indoor and outdoor swimming pools, a gym and many other luxury amenities. Located in the most private and secure area in the suburbs of Barcelona, this place is also home to several Barca players like Alejandro Balde and Ronald Araujo.

According to El Pais and El Periodico , Yamal will stay in the main home, which is being renovated into a personal training center for professional athletes. The new space will include a private gym, a physiotherapy area, a recreation room for friends and a security system.

The villa, designed by architect Mireia Admetller in 2012, was originally the home of Shakira, Pique, their two sons and their parents. The couple broke up in 2022, after 11 years together.

Yamal is dating Argentinian singer and rapper Nicki Nicole and this resembles the love story of Pique and Shakira , which made waves in the media over a decade ago.

At the age of 18, Yamal is already in the top 10 highest-paid football players in 2025, with $43 million. Despite being barely old enough to sign major commercial contracts, he already has six sponsorship deals worth a total of about $6.5 million a year. The most notable is his partnership with Adidas, which brings in $2 million per year and gets Yamal a football boot line named after him, a rare thing for a teenage player, Sportcal reported.

The rest are Visa with $1.5 million, Konami and Beats Electronics with $1 million each. Powerade and Oppo each pay Yamal $500,000 per year.

Most recently, he signed a contract with a website specializing in selling souvenirs with the signatures of athletes. At the request of his management team, Yamal had to stop giving autographs randomly to fans to ensure the commercial value of his signature.

Experts say Yamal's commercial potential can be compared to Kylian Mbappe or British tennis star Emma Raducanu at a similar age. However, unlike many young stars, Yamal has a very clear direction, as he does not receive sponsorship from the gambling or alcoholic beverage brands due to his Islamic beliefs, but focuses on brands aimed at young people, according to Marca .