Football Association of Thailand (FAT) president Madam Pang has insisted that all of her decisions are for the greater good of Thai football, following a wave of criticism for the abrupt sacking of head coach Masatada Ishii.

The Japanese coach lost his job on Oct. 21, just a week after Thailand's 6-1 win over Taiwan in the 2027 Asian Cup qualifiers. Under Ishii, Thailand won 16, drew 6 and lost 8 matches, rising to 96th in the FIFA rankings, their highest position since 2008.

The decision was heavily criticized, as Ishii is still doing a good job in Thailand’s 2027 Asian Cup qualifying campaign, with two more games in hand.

Coach Masatada Ishii during a meeting with the Thailand national team before the 2027 Asian Cup qualifiers in October 2025. Photo by FAT

Commentator Sorayuth Suthassanachinda called it "one of the most controversial coach dismissals ever."

Former Thailand striker Teeratep Winothai pointed out the two wrongs of the decision.

"I think this is a wrong-timing decision, as it affects the target of qualifying for the 2027 Asian Cup," he told Thairath . "This decision also has a financial impact when FAT is in debt and at the same time, it affects the football relations between Thailand and Japan."

In a 1,700-word explanation post on social media, Madam Pang affirmed the decision was not personal. It is the result of a thorough evaluation process based on performance, technical data and recommendations from experts, she said.

"Changing coaches is a common practice in the world if expectations are not met. Top-tier football is not for experimenting," Madam Pang wrote. "A match is only 90 minutes. Winning, drawing, losing all affect the emotions of the fans and the success of FAT, and its president is responsible for that."

Madam Pang recounted the appointment of Ishii's predecessor, Mano Polking, who was appointed in 2021 when Thai football was inferior to Vietnam under coach Park Hang-seo. At that time, she was the leader of the national team and was assigned the task of finding a replacement for Japanese coach Akira Nishino. Polking was chosen for his experience and knowledge of Thai football.

Under Polking, Thailand won two AFF Cup (now ASEAN Cup) titles but was sacked after a 1-2 home loss to China in the second qualifying round of the 2026 World Cup.

"The pressure to find a better coach led to the appointment of Ishii, who was then FAT's technical director," Madam Pang added. "The ultimate goal was to reach the third qualifying round of the 2026 World Cup."

Madam Pang (C) shakes hands with coach Masatada Ishii at the 2024 ASEAN Cup. Photo by FAT

Despite Ishii's strong resume, which included a J1 League title, a FIFA Club World Cup runner-up finish with Kashima Antlers, and two domestic trebles with Thai club Buriram United, his tenure with the national team was marked by key failures.

Although Thailand reached the round of 16 in the 2023 Asian Cup, they failed to achieve their main target. Thailand were eliminated from World Cup qualifiers after only beating Singapore 3-1, losing the third-round ticket to China on head-to-head record.

"That was the most heartbreaking moment for me, FAT and Thai football fans," Madam Pang wrote. "We were only one goal away from the third round, meaning the national team would have to wait four more years for a World Cup qualifying chance."

Subsequent disappointments included losing the 2024 ASEAN Cup final to Vietnam, losing the 2025 King's Cup to Iraq and a 1-3 away loss to Turkmenistan at the 2027 Asian Cup qualifiers.

The technical committee of FAT recommended a change of coach after the defeat against Turkmenistan. However, Madam Pang explained that after an unsuccessful search for a replacement, Ishii continued to lead the team in two games against Taiwan.

On Oct. 21, in a meeting between the technical committee and Ishii, he was informed of his contract termination. Madam Pang affirmed that Ishii was treated with respect, as FAT offered to pay half of his remaining salary.

Madam Pang bows to the fans after Thailand lost 2-3 to Vietnam in the second leg of the 2024 ASEAN Cup final at Rajamangala Stadium, Thailand on Jan. 5, 2025. Photo by FAT

Besides the results, Ishii was questioned for his lack of stability as he frequently experimented with tactics and ignored experienced and in-form players.

"I have listened to the criticisms over the past few days. I have never blamed or caused trouble for anyone," Madam Pang added. "I have never avoided or stayed silent when there are problems, but always faced them, like the financial crisis of FAT or the Thai League broadcasting rights issue."

One day after sacking Ishii, FAT appointed technical director Anthony Hudson as the new head coach. The British coach, born in 1981, has led the national teams of Bahrain, New Zealand and the U.S.

Madam Pang affirmed that she welcomes all comments from fans.

"I would like to emphasize my commitment to leading Thai football to prosperity. The journey has been both rosy and rocky, and I accept all criticism with respect."

Madam Pang, real name Nualphan Lamsam, is a fifth-generation member of the Lamsam family, one of Thailand’s wealthiest, with a net worth of US$890 million, according to Forbes .

She became the first woman in Asia to serve as president of a national football federation in 2024. Before that, she was the leader of the Thailand national football team from August 2021 to January 2024.