Following criticism over the decision to sack coach Masatada Ishii, Football Association of Thailand (FAT) Technical Committee member Piyapong Pue-on has promised to resign if the national team fail to qualify for the 2027 Asian Cup.

Thai football legend Piyapong Pue-on talks with the U23 team in March 2025. Photo by FAT

Pue-on, along with Technical Committee vice president Chanwit Pholchiwin and secretary general Ekapol Pholnawi, are said to have the decisive opinion in Ishii's abrupt dismissal on Oct. 21, which led to the appointment of FAT technical director and British coach, Anthony Hudson.

However, Pue-on, a football legend in Thailand, asserted that the Technical Committee only provided information and the final decision was made by the FAT Executive Committee. He claimed the decision was based on long-term evaluations but admitted the "timing may not be appropriate," ahead of two crucial 2027 Asian Cup qualifying matches.

The 65-year-old former Thailand international argued that changing coaches is a normal thing in football. What is not normal is the skepticism of fans with this change.

"I speak as a former national player and a member of FAT board of directors. If Thailand do not qualify for the Asian Cup, I will resign," Pue-on stated, as quoted by Thai outlet Daily News .

He asked for fans to wait for the team's performance with coach Hudson.

He doubled down on his promise, adding that he would also resign if Thailand lose the upcoming qualifying match against Sri Lanka on Nov. 18.

"I have self-respect. I will not stay at FAT if we lose," he said.

A celebrated figure in Thai football, Pue-on was a teammate of former Vietnam national team coach Park Hang-seo, playing for Lucky-Goldstar in South Korea, where he was the top scorer, top assist-provider and a Best XI selection in the 1985 season. He is the second on the all-time scoring list for Thailand national team, with 70 goals in 100 matches, just one goal behind Kiatisuk Senamuang.

Thailand are currently second in Group D of the 2027 Asian Cup qualifiers, where only the top team advance. They are tied with Turkmenistan on 9 points but trail on head-to-head, due to a 1-3 loss against this opponent.

The team have two matches left: an away game against Sri Lanka on Nov. 18 and a home match against Turkmenistan on March 31, 2026.