Real Madrid forward Vinicius Jr. and Brazilian-American TV star Virginia Foncesca have posted romantic photos from their trip to Monaco, confirming their relationship after months of speculation from fans and media.

Both Vinicius and Foncesca posted a photo of their hotel room in Monaco, which was decorated with rose petals and balloons.

Just a few minutes after Foncesca's post, Vinicius also shared it on his Instagram, confirming their relationship. The post quickly garnered hundreds of thousands of likes and comments from Vinicius's Brazilian teammates, including Neymar and Rodrygo.

Vinicius Jr. and Virginia Foncesca go public with their relationship on social media. Photo by Instagram/@vinijr

Dating rumors of Vinicius and Foncesca surfaced after the Brazilian football star was exposed for sending flirty texts to model Day Magalhaes earlier this month. However, Vini and Foncesca seemed to have overcome challenges and the couple are enjoying a happier phase in their relationship, Marca reported.

Foncesca, 25, a year older than Vinicius, is one of the most famous social media influencers in Brazil with over $45 million followers on Instagram and YouTube.

Her career began with lifestyle and beauty videos, before expanding to the cosmetics business and content creating. Foncesca married to singer Ze Felipe in 2021 and got divorced in 2025. They have a daughter who is now 3.

Vinicius, born in Sao Goncalo, is considered a football prodigy of Brazil. He joined the youth academy of Flamigo at 10 years old, made his debut for the first team at 16 and quickly caught the attention of Real Madrid. In 2018, at 18, Vini moved to Madrid with a transfer fee of $50 million, a record for a teenage player at that time.

At Real Madrid, Vinicius gradually became one of the top players, playing an important role in the club's two Champions League titles, three La Liga trophies, three Spanish Super Cup, one Copa Del Rey, two European Super Cup, a FIFA Club World Cup and a FIFA Intercontinental Cup.